From linux:

```
top - 15:25:56 up  4:24,  3 users,  load average: 1.91, 2.00, 2.29
Tasks: 120 total,   1 running, 119 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
%Cpu(s):  2.0 us,  0.3 sy,  0.0 ni, 28.8 id, 68.8 wa,  0.0 hi,  0.0 si,  0.0 st
KiB Mem:   4100944 total,  4074272 used,    26672 free,   151060 buffers
KiB Swap:   131068 total,      120 used,   130948 free.  2864544 cached Mem
```

From a mac:

```
Processes: 326 total, 2 running, 17 stuck, 307 sleeping, 1666 threads                                        15:29:28
Load Avg: 2.61, 2.58, 2.41  CPU usage: 10.93% user, 26.56% sys, 62.50% idle
SharedLibs: 83M resident, 0B data, 6728K linkedit. MemRegions: 80086 total, 4180M resident, 98M private, 606M shared.
PhysMem: 8072M used (1249M wired), 119M unused.
VM: 824G vsize, 1349M framework vsize, 28120024(0) swapins, 29804030(0) swapouts.
Networks: packets: 42470890/40G in, 58719901/37G out. Disks: 29324535/539G read, 15528537/523G written.
```

CPU is the percentage of the time period specified by the counting mode that
the processor spent in various work.

It seems that linux shows more detail than mac on this

* linux
    * "tasks" are processes
        * sleeping ???
        * running ??
        * stopped ??
        * zombie ???
    * CPU time breack down - see http://unix.stackexchange.com/a/18920 :
        * us: user cpu time (or) % CPU time spent in user space
        * sy: system cpu time (or) % CPU time spent in kernel space
        * ni: user nice cpu time (or) % CPU time spent on low priority processes
        * id: idle cpu time (or) % CPU time spent idle
        * wa: io wait cpu time (or) % CPU time spent in wait (on disk)
            * Prior to Linux 2.5.41, included in idle.
            * QUESTION: why is the SPU waiting, surely waiting things would not be scheduled on it?
            * QUESTION: mac does not show waiting time as separate thing - is this because the kernel reports it differently?
        * hi: hardware irq (or) % CPU time spent servicing/handling hardware interrupts
            * hi is the time spent processing hardware interrupts. Hardware
              interrupts are generated by hardware devices (network cards,
              keyboard controller, external timer, hardware senors, ...) when
              they need to signal something to the CPU (data has arrived for
              example). Since these can happen very frequently, and since they
              essentially block the current CPU while they are running, kernel
              hardware interrupt handlers are written to be as fast and simple
              as possible.


        * si: software irq (or) % CPU time spent servicing/handling software interrupts
            * If long or complex processing needs to be done, these tasks are
              deferred using a mechanism call softirqs. These are scheduled
              independently, can run on any CPU, can even run concurrently (non
              of that is true of hardware interrupt handlers).
        * st: steal time - - % CPU time in involuntary wait by virtual cpu while
            hypervisor is servicing another processor (or) % CPU time stolen
            from a virtual only relevant in virtualized environments.  It
            represents time when the real CPU was not available to the
            current virtual machine - it was "stolen" from that VM by the
            hypervisor (either to run another VM, or for its own needs).

us -- User CPU time
The time the CPU has spent running users' processes that are not niced.
sy -- System CPU time
The time the CPU has spent running the kernel and its processes.
ni -- Nice CPU time
The time the CPU has spent running users' proccess that have been niced.
wa -- iowait
Amount of time the CPU has been waiting for I/O to complete.
hi -- Hardware IRQ
The amount of time the CPU has been servicing hardware interrupts.
si -- Software Interrupts
The amount of time the CPU has been servicing software interrupts.
st -- Steal Time
The amount of CPU 'stolen' from this virtual machine by the hypervisor for other tasks (such as running another virtual machine).

NOTE: st time is significant for our VMs as it indicates time that wasn't available to us


free(1), iostat(1), mpstat(1), ps(1), sar(1), top(1)
man vmstat
man mpstat

* mac
    * user
    * sys
    * idle


# Load averages

Load "average" over 1, 5, 15 mins - it is the _average_ no. of "jobs" in the "run queue"
It is not strictly an "average" - strictly speaking the values are calculated
by an exponential decay function but for our purposes we can consider it an
"average"

> reading from left to right, one can examine the aging trend and/or duration
> of the particular system state. The state in question is CPU load—not to be
> confused with CPU percentage. In fact, it is precisely the CPU load that is
> measured, because load averages do not include any processes or threads
> waiting on I/O, networking, databases or anything else not demanding the CPU.
> It narrowly focuses on what is actively demanding CPU time. This differs
> greatly from the CPU percentage. The CPU percentage is the amount of a time
> interval (that is, the sampling interval) that the system's processes were
> found to be active on the CPU. If top reports that your program is taking 45%
> CPU, 45% of the samples taken by top found your process active on the CPU.
> The rest of the time your application was in a wait.

> (It is important to remember that a CPU is a discrete state machine. It
> really can be at only 100%, executing an instruction, or at 0%, waiting for
> something to do. There is no such thing as using 45% of a CPU. The CPU
> percentage is a function of time.)

> However, it is likely that your application's rest periods include waiting to
> be dispatched on a CPU and not on external devices. That part of the wait
> percentage is then very relevant to understanding your overall CPU usage
> pattern.

> The load averages differ from CPU percentage in two significant ways: 1) load
> averages measure the trend in CPU utilization not only an instantaneous
> snapshot, as does percentage, and 2) load averages include all demand for the
> CPU not only how much was active at the time of measurement.

It is measuring processes that are marked running or uninterruptible.

* http://blog.scoutapp.com/articles/2009/07/31/understanding-load-averages
* You can think of cores as lanes of traffic on a bridge (4 core CPU ~= 4 lane bridge)

> for the purposes of sizing up the CPU load value, the total number of cores
> is what matters, regardless of how many physical processors those cores are
> spread across.

On a single CPU/core machine

* 0.0 means no jobs are going through the CPU
* 1.0 means that single CPU is exactly at capacity
* 1+ means that jobs are waiting to get on the CPU

If you have 4 cores then 4.0 would be all 4 cores exactly at capacity


Rules of thumb:

1. No. of cores = max load
2. Cores is cores
    * Roughly speakinggeneral a 4 processor of 1 core machine == 1 processor of 4 core machine
3. 0.7 per core/cpu is about the most you want in reality as it gives you some headroom
4. 1.0 per core is too high for comfort
5. 5.0 or above for core is a really serious problem
6. The 5 and 15 min averages matter more than the 1 min (which could be a short spike)

For a 2 core server:

* 1.4 is the max 5 or 15 min average you would want to see regularly
* 2.0 is the CPU at max capacity

Both `top` and `uptime` show load averages.

To find out how many cores your system has:

```
# Linux
$ cat /proc/cpuinfo

# Mac
$ sysctl hw.ncpu
# $ sysctl -n hw.ncpu' # gets just number, handy to use programmatically
```



