# Meanings of various HTTP headers

## X-Request-ID

* The idea is that some piece of infrastructure in front of rails can
    add this header tot the _request_ and rails will faithfully pass it
    through or rails will make its own.
* ActionDispatch::RequestId makes the response (which is then accessible
    through ActionDispatch::Request#uuid) and sends the same id to the client
    via the X-Request-Id header.
* The unique request id can be used to trace a request end-to-end and would
    typically end up being part of log files from multiple pieces of the
    stack.
* The unique request id is either based on the X-Request-Id header in the
    request, which would typically be generated by a firewall, load balancer,
    or the web server, or, if this header is not available, a random uuid. If
    the header is accepted from the outside world, we sanitize it to a max of
    255 chars and alphanumeric and dashes only.

##  X-Runtime

* Rack::Runtime sets an X-Runtime header, containing the time (in seconds)
    taken to execute the request.

## Etag

An ETag is an opaque identifier assigned by a web server to a specific version
of a resource found at a URL.

If the resource content at that URL ever changes, a new and different ETag is
assigned.

Used in this manner ETags are similar to fingerprints, and they can be quickly
compared to determine whether two versions of a resource are the same.
Comparing ETags only makes sense with respect to one URL—ETags for resources
obtained from different URLs may or may not be equal, so no meaning can be
inferred from their comparison.

##  Set-Cookie

* sets the cookie from the server


An example of decoding a Rails 3 cookie:

```
[1] pry(main)> require 'rack'
[2] pry(main)> ck = "some long cookie value"
[5] pry(main)> Rack::Session::Cookie::Base64::Marshal.new.decode(ck)
{
            "session_id" => "284c35068aaa594c7637d07acce00647",
  "warden.user.user.key" => [
    [0] "User",
    [1] [
      [0] 2
    ],
    [2] "$2a$10$zh9lOKet..Dv.0bzl49.ye"
  ]
}
```

Status codes

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Response_codes
