That object.prop and object['prop'] are the same thing (so can you please stop
using eval, thanks); that object properties are always strings (even for
arrays); what for...in is for (and what it isn't).

Property-sniffing; what undefined is (and why it smells) why the
seemingly-little-known in operator is beneficial and different from
typeof/undefined checks hasOwnProperty the purpose of delete.

That the Number datatype is really a float the language-independent difficulties
of using floats avoiding the parseInt octal trap.

Nested function scoping the necessity of using var in the scope you want to
avoid accidental globals how scopes can be used for closures the closure loop
problem.

How global variables and window properties collide how global variables and
document elements shouldn't collide but do in IE the necessity of using var in
global scope too to avoid this.

How the function statement acts to ‘hoist’ a definition before code preceding it
the difference between function statements and function expressions why named
function expressions should not be used.

How constructor functions, the prototype property and the new operator really
work methods of exploiting this to create the normal class/subclass/instance
system you actually wanted when you might want to use closure-based objects
instead of prototyping. (Most JS tutorial material is absolutely terrible on
this it took me years to get it straight in my head.)

How this is determined at call-time, not bound how consequently method-passing
doesn't work like you expect from other languages how closures or Function#bind
may be used to get around that.

Other ECMAScript Fifth Edition features like indexOf, forEach and the
functional-programming methods on Array how to fix up older browsers to ensure
you can use them using them with inline anonymous function expressions to get
compact, readable code.

The flow of control between the browser and user code synchronous and
asynchronous execution events that fire inside the flow of control (eg. focus)
vs. events and timeouts that occur when control returns how calling a
supposedly-synchronous builtin like alert can end up causing
potentially-disastrous re-entrancy.

How cross-window scripting affects instanceof how cross-window scripting affects
the control flow across different documents how postMessage will hopefully fix
this.
