Read more: http://joyofbaking.com/bakingsoda.html#ixzz3PllL3rSj

Chemical leaveners, like baking powder and baking soda, can lose their potency
over time. This is especially true when they are not stored in airtight
containers.

# Baking powder

Most baking powder used today is **double-acting** which means it reacts to

1. liquid
2. heat

and this happens in two stages.

The first reaction takes place when you add the baking powder to the batter and
it is moistened. One of the acid salts reacts with the baking soda and produces
carbon dioxide gas.

The second reaction takes place when the batter is placed in the oven. The gas
cells expand causing the batter to rise.

Because of the two stages, baking of the batter can be delayed for about 15-20
minutes without it losing its leavening power.

Both baking powder and baking soda are chemical leavening agents that cause
batters to rise when baked. The leavener enlarges the bubbles which are already
present in the batter produced through creaming of ingredients.

When a recipe contains baking powder and baking soda, the baking powder does
most of the leavening. The baking soda is added to neutralize the acids in the
recipe plus to add tenderness and some leavening.

Baking powder consists of

1. baking soda,
2. one or more acid salts (cream of tartar and sodium aluminum sulfate)
3. plus cornstarch to absorb any moisture so a reaction does not take place
   until a liquid is added to the batter.

Most baking powder used today is double-acting which means it reacts to liquid
and heat and happens in two stages. The first reaction takes place when you add
the baking powder to the batter and it is moistened. One of the acid salts
reacts with the baking soda and produces carbon dioxide gas. The second reaction
takes place when the batter is placed in the oven. The gas cells expand causing
the batter to rise. Because of the two stages, baking of the batter can be
delayed for about 15-20 minutes without it losing its leavening power.

Too much baking powder can cause the batter to be bitter tasting. It can also
cause the batter to rise rapidly and then collapse. (i.e. The air bubbles in the
batter grow too large and break causing the batter to fall.) Cakes will have a
coarse, fragile crumb with a fallen center. Too little baking powder results in
a tough cake that has poor volume and a compact crumb.

Baking soda, also known as sodium bicarbonate or bicarbonate of soda (alkali) is
about four times as strong as baking powder. It is used in recipes that contain
an acidic ingredient (e.g. vinegar, citrus juice, sour cream, yogurt,
buttermilk, chocolate, cocoa (not Dutch-processed), honey, molasses (also brown
sugar), fruits and maple syrup). Baking soda starts to react and release carbon
dioxide gas as soon as it is added to the batter and moistened. Make sure to
bake the batter immediately.

Baking soda has an indefinite shelf life if stored in a sealed container in a
cool dry place.

Too much baking soda will result in a soapy taste with a coarse, open crumb.

Baking soda causes reddening of cocoa powder when baked, hence the name Devil's
Food Cake.

Shelf-life of baking powder: 6-12 months Store: cool, dry, airtight

Shelf-life of baking soda: indefinite Store: cool, dry, sealed

## Testing baking powder

To test baking powder: Put a few tablespoons of warm water (warm tap water is
fine, but cold water is not) into a small bowl and add a teaspoon of baking
powder. The mixture should make a fizzing noise and, after a moment, the baking
powder will begin to fizz and the water will become very cloudy with tiny
bubbles. The more bubbles, the fresher the baking powder. Baking powder reacts
with liquids and heat, but does not react as well with cold water (even fresh
powder wonâ€™t fizz much in ice water), so do not use it for this test.

### Testing baking soda

To test baking soda: Put a few tablespoons of white vinegar into a small bowl
and add a teaspoon of baking soda. It should bubble up furiously, and the
foaming should take several moments to subside. The more bubbles, the more
potent the baking soda. If there is no reaction, or you only end up with a
handful of small bubbles, you need to replace you baking soda.

# Using in recipes

Note: The general rule of thumb for amount of baking powder in recipes: 1 to 2
teaspoons (5-10 grams) of baking powder leavens 1 cup (140 grams) of flour.

The amount will depend on the ingredients and how they are mixed.

# Substitution

Substitution for 1 teaspoon commercial baking powder:

- 1/4 teaspoon (1.25 grams) baking soda
- 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
- 1/4 teaspoon of cornstarch (to absorb any moisture and keep mixture dry)

or

1/4 teaspoon (1.25 grams) baking soda

- 1/2 cup (120 ml) of an acidic ingredient (buttermilk, sour milk or yogurt).

Since homemade baking powder immediately releases its carbon dioxide gas when it
is added and then moistened by the batter, it is important to bake the batter
right away.

### Cream of Tartar

- Lining the inside of wine caskets after fermentation is a white sediment
  (tartaric acid).
- This sediment is removed, purified and then ground to produce a fine white
  powder which we call cream of tartar.
