# Massaman Curry

jamie recipe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBWKj9lezrc

## Option 1

2 tablespoons vegetable oil 650g gravy beef or chuck steak, trimmed 1 cup
coconut cream 2 tablespoons massaman curry paste (see related recipe) 1 cup
coconut milk 1 cup chicken stock 1/2 cup unsalted roasted peanuts 2 medium
potatoes, peeled, cut into 3cm pieces 1 cinnamon stick 2 bay leaves 5 cardamom
pods, lightly crushed (see note) 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon tamarind
concentrate (see note) 1 tablespoon fish sauce steamed SunRice Jasmine Fragrant
Rice, to serve

Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat until hot. Add beef. Cook,
stirring constantly, until evenly browned. Transfer to a plate. Add 2
tablespoons coconut cream to pan. Cook over medium heat for 20 seconds or until
hot. Add curry paste. Cook for 1 minute or until aromatic. Step 2 Return beef
and juices to pan. Add coconut milk, stock, peanuts, potatoes, cinnamon stick,
bay leaves, cardamom pods, sugar, tamarind concentrate, fish sauce and remaining
coconut cream. Stir to combine. Step 3 Reduce heat to low. Cover and simmer,
stirring occasionally, for 1 1/2 to 2 hours or until beef is tender. Serve with
rice.

Note 1: Cardamom is the dried, unripened fruit of a ginger-like plant. The
capsule-shape pods need to be squashed with the flat blade of a knife or pounded
in a mortar and pestle (known as bruising) to expose the tiny, brown, aromatic
seeds which are slightly pungent to taste. If the pods are unavailable, seeds
and ground cardamom are readily available in the supermarket spice aisle. Note
2: The tamarind tree's fruit is a primary 'sour' flavouring. Tamarind pods are
available, however tamarind paste (brown) and concentrate (black) are more
convenient. Tamarind concentrate requires no preparation and provides a fruity,
sour flavour with just a hint of sweetness. Lime juice is a suitable
alternative.

The dish usually contains coconut milk, roasted peanuts or cashews, potatoes,
onion, bay leaves, cardamom pods, meat, star anise, palm sugar, fish sauce,
chili and tamarind sauce.

## Option 2 http://thaifood.about.com/od/thaicurrydishes/r/Thai-Massaman-Chicken-Curry.htm

Try this homemade Thai massaman curry recipe, which is made entirely from
scratch (no packaged curry pastes required!). This famous Thai curry is rich and
very flavorful. It is muslim in origin and can be made with chicken, beef, or
lamb. It's a fragrant yellow curry that incorporates lemongrass and nuts
together with other key Thai ingredients. Coconut milk is always used in this
curry, as are bay leaves (instead of the harder-to-find kaffir lime leaves).
Makes a sumptuous dish to serve on a chilly fall or winter night, and leftovers
are just perfect for hot weekeday lunches. Serve with plain jasmine rice, or,
for special occasions, with saffron rice or coconut rice. ENJOY! Prep Time: 10
minutes

Cook Time: 40 minutes

Total Time: 50 minutes

Yield: SERVES 3-4 (with rice)

Ingredients:

1/2 to 1 pound chicken pieces OR chopped chicken breast/thigh 1-2 medium
potatoes, cut into chunks 1 14 ounce (400 ml) can coconut milk (not lite) 1
small red pepper, thinly sliced 1 medium tomato, sliced 2 Tbsp. coconut oil OR
vegetable oil 1/3 cup onion, sliced 1 thumb-piece ginger, grated 4-5 cloves
garlic 1 red chili, sliced, OR 1/2 to 3/4 tsp. chili flakes/cayenne pepper 1/2
cup good-tasting chicken stock 1 stalk lemongrass, minced, OR 2-3 Tbsp.
frozen/bottled prepared lemongrass 3 bay leaves 1 tsp. turmeric 1/4 cup chopped
unsalted dry-roasted cashews (+ handful more to finish) 1 tsp. ground coriander
1 tsp. whole cumin seed 1/2 tsp. white pepper 1/8 tsp. cardamon 1 tsp. tamarind,
or substitute 1 Tbsp. lime juice\* 3/4 tsp. shrimp paste (available by the jar
at Asian stores) 2 Tbsp. fish sauce 2 Tbsp. fish sauce 1 Tbsp. palm sugar OR
brown sugar Preparation:

Heat a wok, large frying pan, or soup-type pot over medium-high heat. Drizzle in
the oil and swirl around, then add the onion, ginger, garlic, and chili.
Stir-fry 1-2 minutes to release the fragrance. Add the stock plus the following:
lemongrass, bay leaves, turmeric, chopped cashews, ground coriander, whole cumin
seed, white pepper, cardamon, tamarind (or lime juice), shrimp paste, fish
sauce, and sugar. Stir with each addition and bring to a light boil. Add the
chicken, stirring to coat with the spicy liquid, then add the coconut milk and
potatoes. Stir and bring back up to a boil. Reduce heat to low, or just until
you get a good simmer. Simmer 30 to 40 minutes, stirring occasionally, until
chicken and potatoes are tender. Add red pepper and tomato during last 10-15
minutes of coooking time. Tip: if you prefer a more liquid curry sauce, cover
while simmering. If you prefer a thicker curry sauce, leave off lid. Taste-test
the curry, adding more fish sauce for increased flavor/saltiness, or more chili
if you want it spicier. If too sour, add a little more sugar. If too salty or
sweet for your taste, add a touch more tamarind or lime juice. If too spicy, add
more coconut milk. Add a handful more cashews and fold in. Transfer to a serving
bowl, or plate up on individual plates or bowls. Top with fresh coriander, if
desired, and serve with Thai jasmine rice. ENJOY!

## Option 3 http://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/massaman-curry

# Massaman curry paste http://www.taste.com.au/recipes/194/massaman+paste+for+massaman+beef+curry
